
# Simplifying small area estimation with rFIA: a demonstration of tools and techniques

## *Detailed tutorials coming soon\!*

This is a permanent repository for code used in Stanke, Finley, Domke
(2021), “Simplifying small area estimation with rFIA: a demonstration of
tools and techniques”, under review in Frontiers in Forests and Global
Change. We will update the DOI, link, etc, once published. We will
upload detailed tutorials soon, but for the time being see the notes
below.

## County-level forest carbon stocks, CONUS

  - All code/data related to our first case study, estimating
    county-level forest carbon stocks with a spatial Fay-Herriot model,
    can be found in the `carbon/` directory.
      - Source code is located in `carbon/src/`
      - FIA and PRISM data are downloaded from public servers by
        `getFIA.R` and `getPRISM.R`, respectively. These data will be
        stored in the `carbon/data/` directory once downloaded.
        **IMPORTANT**: data downloads are large (FIA data \> 50GB). Only
        download once (all data will be saved on disk), and consider
        subseting the spatial extent (i.e., select a handful of states)
        following the guidance in `getFIA.R` for testing and subsequent
        use.
      - Results (i.e., population estimates) generated by source code
        are stored in `carbon/results/`
      - **To run**: source in the following order `getFIA.R` (only once)
        –\> `getPRISM.R` (only once) –\> `directEstimates.R` –\>
        `fitModel.R`.

## Trends in Merchantable volume, Washington County, Maine

  - All code/data related to our second case study, estimating
    multi-decadal trends in merchantable wood volume in Washington
    County, Maine, can be found in the `vol/` directory.
      - Source code is located in `vol/src/`
      - FIA data are downloaded from FIA’s public server by `getFIA.R`.
        These data will be stored in the `vol/data/` directory once
        downloaded. Only need to download once, as data will be saved on
        disk.
      - Results (i.e., population estimates and plot-level summaries)
        generated by source code are stored in `volume/results/`
      - **To run**: source in the following order `getFIA.R` (only once)
        –\> `pltSummaries.R` –\> `fitModel.R` (generates model-based
        estimates) –\> `annualPanels.R` (generates design-based
        estimates).

For questions and/or more details, contact [Hunter
Stanke](https://hunter-stanke.com/) at <stankehu@msu.edu> and/or (269)
221-4745.
